## The Bike Share System

This is the readme for the bike share report which is the first project under Udacity's Machine Learning Foundation nanodegree. The course can be thought of as a part of the larger Machine Learning Engineer nanodegree that is also offered at Udacity and shares some of the projects, specifically the last project that involves predicting real estate pices in Boston area (readme included for that also).

The bike share system shares data with the [Motivate](https://www.motivateco.com/) service that provides bicycle riding at select cities and metros of the U.S. Its a simple bike sharing service where customers are either categorised as 'subscribers' or 'casual' depending upon their mode of usage either through a subscription type or one-time use. In this project that concluded in December, students were provided a set of .csv files through which certain rubrics had to be met for the project to be acceptable as meeting quality requirements.

Of the four projects in the course, this was the hardest since this made use of most common and advacnd Python operations such as loops, if-else conditions and defining working functions while working on data such as dictionary objects that are usually a set of several entries of varying data types. Usage of third party modules as well as popular libraries such as `numpy` and `pandas` is allowed although most of the project is required to be performed in data types and libraries that come preloaded with native Python 3.6. This is required to provide students the necessary programming skills.

The best presentation of this project was thus a right mix of native data types, functions and operations as well as some notable libraries such as `pandas` to achieve the best results. In its entirety, the python notebook for this project makes use of `matplotlib` and `numpy` for getting into the details of statistical values and exploration while the initial part of the project starts with reading in a data file that needs to be stored as a dictionary and operated upon. In the latter half of the project, extra modules are used with some functions too defined making good use of them. All in all, a postive review with all criteria being met was the grade received for this project.

**Note**: This notebook requires Python 3.0 or above. For best results, please use Python 3.6.
